h1. templayed.js

A micro (Mustache.js compliant) Javascript templating library

h2. Introduction

"Mustache.js":https://github.com/janl/mustache.js/ is one of the best known Javascript templating libraries out there. I am also using it within several projects. The only downside you could imagine is its size:

* uncompressed: 15050 bytes
* YUI compressed: 5053 bytes
* YUI compressed and gzipped: 2271 bytes

So out of pure curiosity, I have written @templayed.js@ to see whether it can be written more compact with the following as result:

* uncompressed: 1751 bytes
* YUI compressed: 827 bytes
* YUI compressed and gzipped: 490 bytes

It does not have dependencies and it supports the following Mustache.js features:

* variables
* variables accessed through properties of objects using the dot notation
* HTML escaping of variables
* shown / hidden sections
* lists
* current item referrals
* functions
* inverted sections
* comments

This leaves out partials and streaming.

So without the intention of seeing @templayed.js@ as a serious replacement of @Mustache.js@, I have published the library on my Github account.

h2. Installation

Just include templayed.js:

<pre>
  <script src="path/to/templayed.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
</pre>

*Note*: include @templayed.min.js@ for the minified templayed.js library

h2. Usage

h3. Writing templates

If you are familiar with the @Mustache.js@ syntax then you are able to write @templayed.js@ templates. Read the "Mustache.js documentation":https://github.com/janl/mustache.js/ if you are not.

h3. Rendering templates

Rendering those templates can be done using @templayed()@.

<pre>
  templayed("<p>My name is {{name}}!</p>", {name: "Paul Engel"});
</pre>

h3. Check current version

You can obtain the library version with the following:

<pre>
  templayed.version;
</pre>

h2. Try out templayed.js online yourself

Please visit "http://archan937.github.com/templayed.js":http://archan937.github.com/templayed.js to try out templayed.js yourself and to check out a series of live examples.

h2. Contact me

For support, remarks and requests please mail me at "paul.engel@holder.nl":mailto:paul.engel@holder.nl.

h2. License

Copyright (c) 2012 Paul Engel, released under the MIT license

"http://holder.nl":http://holder.nl – "http://github.com/archan937":http://github.com/archan937 – "http://codehero.es":http://codehero.es – "http://gettopup.com":http://gettopup.com – "http://twitter.com/archan937":http://twitter.com/archan937 – "paul.engel@holder.nl":mailto:paul.engel@holder.nl

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.